so we're gonna use that's okay
it's no big deal we'll sort that out
later
who knew that if you move locations and
you have all the same gear it sometimes
doesn't work we're gonna use Microsoft
Word okay and we're gonna use this to
kind of make make take some notes all
right I'm just gonna roll with it okay
so first thing to understand about
procrastination is okay
today we're gonna talk about so you guys
should take notes yourselves okay we're
gonna talk about procrastination we
talked a little bit about this last time
that when when so I so one of the things
we talked about in terms of motivation
is that if it's like ever-present or
anxiety if it if it's present then most
human beings that generally speaking
it's actually not a problem so it's not
like a pathology so what I mean by that
is like if we think about like pathology
within human beings is rare so if we
take something like cancer or
schizophrenia those are rare conditions
that like literally mess with sort of
the way that we work they're not they're
not designed to work that way
whereas if you look at something like
procrastination like how common is
procrastination right like it's a
universal experience that is it by all
people so it's not something that's a
problem it's actually it's it's a
solution it's not a problem I know that
sounds absolutely bizarre but what do I
mean by that so if we think about like
what is procrastination like how do you
guys define procrastination let's start
there so procrastination is waiting
until the last minute to get things done
and so I want you guys to think about
this for a second right so the first
thing is not procrastination is
different from not doing it
procrastination is different from
failing procrastination is waiting until
the last minute to get things done so
what we need to understand about
procrastination it is actually a
strategy for
getting things done and furthermore it
is a strategy to get things done in the
most efficient way possible
and this is why it's so hard to get rid
of because it's not a problem it's
actually a very efficient solution so
our brain tends to be incredibly
incredibly efficient this is why when we
want a glass of water we go to like our
kitchen and we grab a glass of water or
we bring water with us when we come to
our bedroom or a room to study or things
like that we don't walk two miles every
time we want a glass of water why is
that it's because that's inefficient and
our brain is incredibly efficient and so
I'm gonna walk you guys through a
scenario okay so I want you guys to
think about this for a second like when
you have like you know you have tests
right like look so let's say that you
have a final paper that's due in the
class then your entire grade is based on
that final paper you have three months
to work on that paper when do you start
working on it like when you have two
weeks left right and so like what you
want to do is you kind of think like
okay let the start of the semester
you're thinking okay I'm gonna work on
this paper every week and then I'm not
gonna be stressed out at the end of of
the semester so three months later I'll
have it all like like done and I'll
polish it I'm actually gonna turn in two
weeks early like I'm gonna just get it
done and then I'm gonna relax the last
two weeks and then it's gonna be amazing
I'm gonna get an A everything's gonna be
great
and then then like I want you guys to
think about that so your brain is like
okay buddy like let me let me understand
this what you're saying is that we're
gonna spend three months working on
something that we can finish in three
days like why on earth would we do that
like you're dumb man like you're telling
me that you want to work your ass off
for ten weeks and then do this paper in
two weeks I'm sorry you're telling me
that you want to work your ass off for
ten weeks and then we're gonna relax for
two weeks when you turn it in early or
or we can actually just relax for 10
weeks and then like work our asses off
for two weeks and then be done with it
like think about that for a second right
so the reason that procrastination is so
resistant to get like the reason we're
so resistant to getting rid of
procrastination is because it's a really
really effective solution think about
all of the time
pleasure and enjoyment you by yourself
by procrastinating like sure like you
stress to yourself out for those last
two weeks or three days or whatever but
all kinds of like you know emotions that
are floating beneath the surface but
like think about all of the youtubes you
get to watch or all of the games that
you get to play by procrastinating and
then your brain is like dude I don't
understand why you want us to suffer for
10 weeks doing boring stuff that we
don't want to do when we can do it in
like slower between 3 days and 2 weeks
instead it's just dumb it's it's silly
it's the first thing to understand is
that procrastination is not a problem it
is a solution and it is an incredibly
effective solution which is why it's so
prevalent so the things that work well
tend to spread evolutionarily right so
like eyes tend to work pretty well
furthermore two eyes tend to work better
than one eye because it gives us depth
perception and lo and behold most people
in the world have two eyes it's because
it's so effective so procrastination is
actually a highly efficient task
completing strategy and if you guys
don't think it's efficient just think
about this for a second if you can write
a paper in three days and one semester
like let's say you take a class and you
have to take like let's say five classes
a semester and you take you do for uh
let's see eight semesters over the
course of college that means you're
taking 40 classes right if you can write
one paper in three days what that means
is that if you wanted to you could be
done with college in a hundred and
twenty days think about that you could
do all the work in 120 days done start
to finish because if one if one day you
can write a paper I mean if one class
you can write a paper in three days and
then your brain is like this is actually
only 120 days of work I don't need to
spend four years which is a thousand 200
or even more than that right it's like
1500 days why would I spend a 1,500 days
doing work that you can finish in 120
days your brain is like we only need 10%
of the time that you're trying to do
this in like that's all we need think
about that for a second so the first
thing to understand about
procrastination
is that it's an incredibly efficient
task completing solution okay now the
question is like but then why does it
cause us so much trouble and that's
because we have goals set in our mind we
have fantasies about our performance
that our brain is not like doesn't get
behind us with that okay so like what I
mean by that is like you know if you
write a paper in three days you're gonna
get like a B or C but what you want is
an A but like what the brain the brain
has trouble getting behind this idea
that like okay I could spend 10% of the
work I could spend 10% of effort and get
a B or I could spend a hundred percent
effort and get an A your brain is like
that seems like kind of a bad deal to me
like why would I want to spend fifteen
hundred days getting an A when I could
spend 120 days getting a B or C brains
like that's dumb dude we can get into we
can get a get a degree with like a
straight like two point eight average or
like 3.0 average and we could just work
10% of the time right that's the first
thing so the second thing is that you
know when when it comes to actual so
that's the first thing to understand
about procrastination now even if it's a
solution there are different kinds of
things that happen with procrastination
that like cause so that's so even if we
say it's a solution we still want to
change that solution right we don't want
to accept that solution so the process
of changing and overcoming
procrastination we need to understand
like how to change it even though it is
a very efficient solution and the reason
that there are you know thousands of
like videos on procrastination and tons
of books and tons of blogs on
procrastination is that like one
solution doesn't work because I don't
think procrastination is one problem I
think it's like half a dozen problems so
I want you guys to think about this for
a second so let's say I'm a doctor and
someone comes to me and they say I have
an illness and then I say okay you have
an illness let me give you medicine for
your illness and then someone else comes
in and says oh I'm sick and then I say
okay you're sick let me give you
medicine for your sickness and there's
no specificity of diagnosis so whether
someone comes in with
heart attack or depression or an
allergic reaction or erectile
dysfunction my treatment is all the same
like how good of a doctor do you think
I'm gonna be I'm gonna be a bad doctor
right and what's the problem here is
that where we're taking something like
sickness and we're not breaking it into
its component parts which are actually
different and have different solutions
so the first thing to understand about
next thing to understand about
procrastination is that there are
actually multiple kinds of
procrastination and that's why it's so
hard to get rid of because until you
understand what kind of procrastination
what type of procrastination with there
are different strategies for different
kinds of procrastination which is why
you can read a procrastination blog
which says here are five tips to
overcome procrastination it doesn't help
you at all so let's start by
understanding there are three different
so today we're going to cover three
different kinds of procrastination those
are ideal as idealistic procrastination
consequence procrastination and
operational procrastination so the first
one is idealistic procrastination and
this is when our brain creates a
particular fantasy about what we want
and our inability to get that fantasy
keeps us from trying so this is the
procrastination of what I call readiness
so this is also readiness
procrastination this is the
procrastination that I will do this task
when I am ready to when I'm ready to do
it right like so I'll give you guys a
prime example before I started doing the
webinar the reason that I hadn't done
the webinars because in my mind I wanted
to improve my handwriting before I did
the webinar I was like I'm gonna
practice my handwriting for like one or
two months or three months and learn how
to write legibly again because I'm a
doctor and all of our handwriting sucks
and once I I'm ready to like write
legibly then I'll start the webinar and
so I don't know if you guys like realize
that can you take notes in your word
yeah I have notes in word so do you guys
really want notes hold on okay sure I
can't
okay so the first thing point number one
that's the nation let me just make sure
this is is a solution Rasta nation is
waiting until the last minute to
complete a task fascination is an
incredibly efficient task completion
strategy so the key thing here is that
procrastination is not about quality
it's about value or efficiency and
remember value equals effort oh sorry
yield divided by efforts okay so that's
the first thing the second thing is
procrastination it's hard to fix because
there are subtypes and so we frequently
miss diagnose our NASA mission so that
we end up treating it incorrectly okay
that's the second thing so the three
types so why that subtypes of crafts
nation number one idealistic
procrastination number two avoidance and
number three is operational the each of
these has a different thing going on in
your mind and as a result has a
different has a different solution so
what is idealistic procrastination so
the first thing is idealistic
procrastination is about a fantasy so
what that means is that you think like I
want
this task to turn out a certain way I
want this task to drop and until the tap
until your brain figures out how to make
that possible you're not going to do it
so this is also a procrastination of
readiness so what I mean by that is like
I'm gonna do this task when I'm ready to
make it perfect and so think about all
of the things in life that you avoid
doing because you're not ready to make
them perfect yet so the example that I
use for this webinar is like I wanted to
improve my handwriting before I started
doing the webinar because then like my
notes would be nice and clean and things
like that and since like I'm not going
to improve my handwriting like I'm not
gonna do the webinar so in this case
like there was an interesting pressure
from Kovan and all this kind of stuff
that we decided okay let's do our mental
health bootcamp let's just do it
even if we're gonna do a bad job let's
just try it and see what happens and so
your attachment to the fantasy prevents
you from moving forward so I'm gonna ask
that there's this girl I like I'm gonna
ask her out but she's gonna say no
because I'm out of shape so let me get
in shape first and then I'm gonna ask
her out you guys with me like this is an
idealistic procrastination right and so
so what this means is that like if you
want a 4.0 like you're not gonna you
know this really leads to all kinds of
weird things like let's say you wait
halfway through the semester and you
procrastinate and you want like a 4.0
that semester and then you realize that
you're not gonna get a 4.0 because
you've procrastinated so much and then
instead of like shooting for the 3.0
since you can't have the 4.0 it's sort
of like causes you to lose any desire to
do work and then you end up with a 2.0
it's this really weird convoluted mental
gymnastics kind of thing but you're so
attached to a particular fantasy or
ideal that you're not willing to like do
something less than the ideal so it's
sort of like this this attachment to an
idealistic outcome and the difficulty of
obtaining that idealistic outcome and
we'll kind of get to that in a second
Vasiliy with operational procrastination
prevents you from actually acting right
does that make sense yeah you don't even
take the test absolutely right so you'd
rather have a 100% chance at an F then
if then a 20% chance at an A so you just
think about that like that's crazy
you'd rather take a 100% chance of an F
rather than a 20% chance a just think
about that that's completely messed up
like it's bizarre but it's so true right
so let's not let's remember that the
goal of like like our our boot camp here
is we don't care about whether things
are smart or dumb or we don't care about
whether we radiata core our brain is
stupid we care about what is so we're
not going to judge that we're gonna just
accept that this is the way that we're
wired and if this is the way that we're
wired we can Hammond haw and we can get
upset about it or we can just say like
okay let's scratch our heads a little
bit and see if this is the way that
we're wired like let's see if we can
just fix it let's see if we can start
from where we are and move forward so if
we think about this we'll get to mmm
let's get those solutions right so how
do you deal with idealistic
procrastination idealistic
procrastination if we're thinking about
solutions the first thing is to
recognize that what you're chasing is a
fantasy the solutions
[Music]
but what you need to do is learn how to
step away from your fantasy or
idealization right recognize that like
okay the problem is that you set a
target for yourself which is unrealistic
so if you if you've never gotten a 4.0
if you have a 2.0 GPA and you start your
second semester and you're like this
semester I want a 4.0 like this semester
I'm gonna do it
you start by actually letting go of that
right you start by saying hey buddy it's
like very very very unlikely probably
impossible for me to go to it from a 2.0
to a 4.0 right so recognize you're
chasing a fantasy and then this is the
tricky part
then grieve your loss
okay so the solution to idealistic
procrastination is grief this is what
you guys need to learn how to do because
your attachment to the 4.0 is what keeps
you stuck if you can grieve and you can
say like okay that 4.0 is never gonna
happen it's not gonna happen I'm just
not capable I'm not that smart
I'm not that capable I'm too lazy I'm
too undisciplined let me grieve that
loss and let me set a more realistic
expectation like what are you actually
say like in then aim low right so say
like okay let's shoot for a 2.1 this
semester this is the cognitive process
that you need to do like just greeting
it and just let it go and be like okay
well that's it
screwed let's shoot for a 2.1 and the
cool thing about that doesn't grieving
sound like giving up on the contrary
grieving is not giving up grieving is
actually accepting a loss and moving
forward right like if we think about
grief like when someone when a loved one
passes away the process of grieving is
accepting their loss and then moving
forward giving up is completely
different no you guys are that smart the
all of these problems are worse for
people that are smart easier for people
that are less smart because your brain
is working against you this is what you
guys have to say the smarter you are the
stronger your brain is and the harder it
is to overcome problems like
procrastination
you guys get that it's it's anyway so
the solution to idealistic
procrastination is grieving your loss or
letting go of your fantasy and will kind
of get to this in a second but so I want
you guys to think about this as long as
you have an unrealistic fantasy you're
never going to be able to move forward
right if you have a 2.0 and you don't
have that the study skills or the habits
or environment or intelligence to get a
4.0 if you attach yourself to that 4.0
you're never gonna be able to study
because like you're never gonna be able
to get there you're shooting for
something that is like impossible and
therefore all its gonna leave to lead to
is like disappointment and the lack of
confidence instead what you need to do
is let go that fantasy and say hey I'm
just like I've gotten a 2.0 for four
semesters in a row let me see if I can
at least get a 2.5 and once you have an
attainable goal because this is this
fantasy it's it's for the most part
unattainable you're setting yourself up
for failure here I want you guys to
really think about this you're setting
yourself up for an equation that you're
like bound to fail and so like no wonder
you're stuck in life because you're
playing a game that you literally cannot
win and if you can you hope you win and
that's what the fantasy is the more you
start to fail them the bigger the
fantasy becomes and the harder becomes
to achieve and the more stuck you get
like this explains why people are stuck
because you're not letting you're not
willing to let go of your fantasy of
progress and if you if you can't let go
of your fantasy of your progress you
can't actually progress and here's the
thing when you actually let go of your
fantasy cool things happen instead of a
two-point one you actually get a two
point seven and then you're like okay I
got a two point seven let me - for a two
point eight and then you get three point
oh and then you get
3.50 if you guys talk to people who like
put their lives together it's not an
over it's not an overnight thing right
it's not an overnight thing it's a
gradual process how do you let go you
grieve so we'll talk more about that but
you accept right so you tell yourselves
like who you're gonna have a thought
that I can get a 4.0 and then you need
to have another thought that says hey
buddy that's realistic let's shoot for a
2.1 you have that thought along with
your thought so this so we can talk more
about how to grieve but I want to go
through a couple of other types of
procrastination right so the second
thing is avoidance procrastination so
this procrastination tends to be based
on emotions what I mean by this is that
if you think about a particular task
like let's say that you want to ask your
boss for vacation like you want to go on
vacation but you're afraid that your
boss is gonna say no or you're afraid
that your boss is gonna think you're
lazy or you're asking this is an example
I was dealing with recently you're
asking your professor for an extension
due to kovat and you're afraid that like
your professor is gonna think you're
dumb because you need an extension and
so there are all kinds of like emotions
and you're trying to avoid that
emotional impact right you're trying to
avoid the emotion of people thinking or
ego you're trying to avoid the emotion
of like you know oh I'm afraid that my
professors gonna think I'm dumb I'm
afraid that this is not gonna go well
there's it's it's fundamentally it's an
emotional procrastination so this is
different from the fantasy you guys get
that like fantasy is like you having an
ideal in your mind of what you can
accomplish if everything goes right
Mandarin kovat I can't leave the house
so I'm gonna learn five languages and
I'm gonna get into shape and I'm gonna
wake up at 7 a.m. every day that's
fantasy I mean the bigger your fantasy
becomes the more you're gonna
procrastinate that's fundamentally
different from having an emotional
barrier that holds you back so emotions
that you try to avoid and this too is
protective because your brain is now
like hey man like oh if until we until
we ask our boss we're not gonna have to
feel bad because our boss is gonna call
us an idiot he's gonna call us lazy and
he's gonna say no and then I'm gonna
have to call my friends and then I'm
gonna have to tell them I can't come and
then they're gonna be disappointed so
that sounds terrible hmm how about we
don't do that so your brain is like how
about we don't do that right you guys
see this brain is trying to help you out
your brains like hey man if this is
gonna be bad for you how about we don't
do that however but we avoid the fear
right and and but these are
fundamentally different because the
solution is different you can sort of
let go I mean letting go works really
well so the solution to this the
solution to this is first to recognize
the emotion actually hold on one second
so another thing okay so one of the
things that I want to point out here so
the other thing with avoidance
procrastination is a lot of times we try
to rationally justify what we should do
so we try to tell ourselves oh like it's
no big deal like everyone's gonna ask
for everyone's going to ask for
extensions kovat is going on like who
what kind of professor is gonna say no
to anything during Kovan like who's
gonna do that no one's gonna do that
like so we have all these rational
arguments or other people like if we
turn to friends or family members and we
tell them oh hey I'm having trouble like
doing this task they're like hey man
just do it they're not gonna say
anything wrong like it's gonna be fine
we try to rationally justify what we
should do and how effective is that when
we do rational justification
[Music]
okay how rational is it or how effective
is it truth is it is a it isn't
effective right and the reason for that
is because we're trying to use thoughts
to deal with emotions and thoughts don't
really work well at dealing with
emotions because it's kind of like
apples and oranges it's kind of like
you're trying to build something with a
pen right a pen is used for drawing it's
not used for building it's just they
don't connect so that our solution is to
recognize the emotion so ask yourself
what is the emotion I am feeling or
trying to avoid feeling okay and if you
guys are having trouble with that
another question you can ask yourself is
what is the consequence if you can't pin
down the emotion I'm trying to avoid
okay and then ask yourself another
question how would someone who is in
that situation feel so this is a really
quick cheat code to figure out what your
emotions are so a lot of people have
trouble answering this question they
don't know what their emotions are so
maybe we'll talk about alexithymia
tomorrow and so one thing that a lot of
times like people who are technology
savvy or gamers are they they don't
really have a whole lot of emotional
empathy but they have good cognitive
empathy and what does that mean it means
that if you ask them to analyze a
situation and use reasoning to figure
out what emotion someone is feeling
they're really good at that but if you
ask them what are you feeling they're
like I don't know they're emotionally
colorblind but their analytical
capability to reason emotion is very
good so this is a way of transforming
emote like inability to determine your
emotions this is leveraging your
analytical capability to figure out your
emotions so it's kind of like a little
bit of a cheat code someone was asking
is there some way to productively use
this absolutely it's all productive and
so this is so if you have avoidance
procrastination the first thing is that
you can't rationally fight against it
but that's usually what we do so
don't even try to rationally fight it
start with the emotion ask yourself what
is the emotion I'm feeling and then
you're gonna be like I don't know what
I'm feeling
I feel bad and these are the answers you
can come up lazy stupid these are not
emotions guys they're not emotions
stupid is not an emotion right but these
are the only words that we can come up
with because we don't understand what
like we're emotionally colorblind so do
this practice and then recognize oh okay
so this is the negative emotion that I'm
feeling and then what you have to do is
work on an emotional level right so how
do you come in and then you're like okay
well let's play through this dialog so
then what we have to do is work on
emotional level okay instead of a
rational level and then y'all's
responses how the F do I do that
okay so I'm gonna tell you guys let's
use our cognitive empathy
let's turn cognitive empathy into
emotional empathy again so ask yourself
if I had a friend who felt X emotion
what would I say to them right and then
say that to yourself you guys get this
this is gonna be kind of weird but a lot
of times like instant like when you have
friends who are like oh I'm afraid that
she's gonna say no you know what you
want to say is like you don't want to
say you know you don't want to say just
[ __ ] do it you're you're a [ __ ]
just do it like that's that's what you
tell yourself right like you're lazy
you're competent but the way that you
talk to yourself and the way that you
talk to your friends is different so
learn how to be supportive towards
yourself instead of being a judge for
yourself learn to be a coach and what's
the difference between a judge and a
coach a coach is not someone who says oh
everything is wonderful you're amazing a
coach still acknowledges your flaws but
then
like encourages you to work on them
instead of a judge who's punishing you I
just like your lazy smacks his gavel you
deserve to go to jail you don't deserve
to play video games you suck at life
screw you jail with you and the coach is
like hey buddy I understand that you
have trouble dribbling
let's practice dribbling and like if we
if we weren't on it you'll actually like
get better like I believe in you so you
need to start to like instead of an
angel and a demon on our shoulders our
generation has a judge in a coach those
are the two things that you have on your
shoulders and and you still the coach
isn't gonna let you slide he's just
gonna be a little bit more encouraging
right and learn how to say this to
yourself this is a task to this is also
the subject of an entire video or day
about like how to deal with emotions and
how to talk to yourself okay but
remember that the the main thing I'm
asking you guys to really focus on right
now is that there are three kinds of
procrastination and understand which one
you're dealing with because do you guys
get that like dealing with this one is
fundamentally different from dealing
with this one two of them can coexist
but then you have to deal with each one
right like someone can come in with like
a cough and a fever and then you want to
give them something for their coffin you
want to give them something for their
fever but that's the effective that's
the way that you become an effective
doctor is you deal with like each part
of the problem in and of itself and this
is why procrastination is so hard to
deal with because we use one word for
procrastination but in fact it is
actually a lot of different
psychological like patterns that are all
coexisting and that's why it's so
persistent and so hard to fix you guys
get this for a second that if we had a
solution to procrastination there
wouldn't be a thousand solutions for it
because one thing would work and then
like all of the self-help books about
procrastination would be useless because
there'd be one book about
procrastination that works for everyone
so the fact the fact that you you don't
you have all these thousands of
solutions means that like none of them
work and that's because it's a complex
problem but there shouldn't be one word
procrastination it should be a dozen
different books about a dozen different
kinds of procrastination so now let's go
to the last one which is operational
procrastination so this is
[Music]
so operational procrastination is our
brains difficulty engaging in unclear
tasks okay so what I mean by that is if
our brain so this is the this kind of
procrastination I'll tell it to you guys
very quickly okay if you guys ever
procrastinated to do a task for the
first time and then when you do the task
you're like oh that actually I couldn't
I should have done that way earlier it
was actually really easy does that ever
happen to you like this is the
procrastination
that you experience when after you're
done you tell yourself oh that actually
wasn't that bad I should have done it
weeks ago a great example of this you
guys are doing yoga with us you're like
BAM yoga it's not that hard I could have
done that weeks ago I could have done
that weeks ago I should have done that
weeks ago this is operational
procrastination so now I want you guys
to think about this this kind of
procrastination right you guys can't see
me pointing is different from this
procrastination do you guys get that do
you guys get that avoidance
procrastination idealistic
procrastination an operational
procrastination create different
thoughts in your head so like these are
different things that are going on in
your mind and so they have different
solutions and if you guys actually start
tailoring your solutions to what is
going on in your head instead of having
a solution to procrastination it's gonna
be like night and day so what is
operational procrastination okay and how
do we fix it okay so this is how to
recognize that first of all all right
this is how to diagnose it this is the
diagnostic question this is the
diagnostic question and then this is the
diagnostic question so if your mind is
doing this then you're dealing with
fantasy fantasy procrastination if your
mind is trying if your mind is like
avoiding
negative emotion if your mind is telling
you this actually this is the diagnostic
question if this is what your mind is
telling you it's a different
procrastination and this is kind of
tricky but this because this is after
the fact if this feels like you would
say this after the fact
then it's operational procrastination
okay so what do we do what is
operational procrastination so the first
thing is that when we tell our brain to
do abstract tasks our brain has
difficulty like executing the abstract
and this is a big problem for video
gamers okay so abstract tasks are
difficult or impossible to execute I'll
give you guys an example of this okay
but let's say that I tell my for so
let's say I tell my four-year-old she's
like almost four and a half or four and
a half year old um so she's like four
and a half and I tell her to clean clean
her room she goes into a room and she
can kind of clean it right if I tell my
two and a half year old go clean your
room she goes into the room and she
stands there and she can't clean her
room
why can't she clean her room it's
because and then I tell her I'm like
okay like she doesn't understand so the
four and a half year old understands
that cleaning room is a set of
individual tasks that are put together
she recognizes a clean room and she
recognizes a dirty room and she
recognizes that her stuffed animals go
here her Legos go here and the chess set
goes here and her markers go here now
the two and a half year old can't piece
that together so I can tell the two and
a half year old I can ask her where does
the chess set go and she says okay it
goes here and I say clean up the chess
set and she can do that then I guess
okay where do your markers go and she
knows where the markers go and I said
clean up the markers do that where do
your stuffed animals go she knows that
clean them up do that right and then
Legos too
so she can do each of the individual
tasks but the but she can't put the
abstract picture together and this is a
faculty that if you play video games
you are worse at abstraction because
what video games do is they give up they
they do
the chunking of tasks for us right the
video game breaks it apart all it tells
you is what's the next objective
okay collect five rat tails go turn this
in over here go do this over here it
takes it like how do you beat the game
like if you play like an RPG like I play
a lot of RPGs right
the RPG doesn't start with you at the
beginning and says okay like so ff7
remake is gonna come out soon just like
you're if you're cloud it doesn't say
like go kill suffer off it says like go
do this thing and go do this thing and
go do this thing and go do this thing
and go do this thing and it breaks it up
for you so the more that we play video
games the more rusty our abstraction and
operationalizing part of our brain
becomes because we're spending like 10
hours a day with tasks that were not
operationalizing because the computer
and game does it for us so we lose that
faculty it's kind of like if you don't
speak a language for a long time you're
gonna you're gonna forget the language
right and so the the solution to
operational procrastination is to
recognize first of all that you're kind
of you're like a two and a half year old
instead of a four and a half year old
and that if you think about like a good
example of operational procrastination
is finding a job how do you find a job
you can't find a job do I walk out on
the street and I see one lying there and
I pick it up oh look I found a job no
that's dumb that's not we don't even
have the right word for it right finding
a job is not something you do you don't
like walk down the street you're like oh
oh there's a job oh look I got one we
don't use the right verb why do we use
the word find to get a job like that's
not it's because we don't we take this
super abstract task and we assign one
crappy word to it whereas actually
finding a job is like a super
complicated thing right it's making a
resume it's polishing a resume do I make
a resume do I make a CV what font do I
use what color do I use how do I make my
margins what if my resume looks fat like
what if my resume looks empty right then
we kind of get into this procrastination
oh my god my resume is empty there's a
little bit of avoidance procrastination
people who are reading this are gonna
think it sucks oh my god right so it's
it's making a resume that's something
you can do
opening up
Microsoft Word that's something you can
do those are tasks so the solution to
operational procrastination as many
people sort of figured out is to
actually operationalize it for you so
what I'd suggest is you sit down with a
piece of paper and you actually write
out all as many steps as you can to
completing the task so in if you guys
are having trouble with this what I'd
say so
take an abstract task and chunk it up
and if you guys are having trouble with
where to start this is another key thing
right so like how do I make a resume
don't start with the resume start at the
end okay
Kiko so accept a job offer right so just
think about this okay so we accept a job
offer see if a job offer interviewed
apply so then actually we can even say
this so like follow-up post interview
apply for job how many do we need to
apply for interview what are our chances
hey for this before we interview we need
to buy clean suit hair shave okay in
order to apply for a job we have to find
jobs to apply for how are we going to
find jobs okay we can use monster calm
or online sites use Craigslist and
how we get now things are getting tricky
so how do we know we know which jobs so
I'm gonna do a video about how to get
the job of your dreams which is
essentially operationalizing you guys
get this so this is what you need to do
and then what this does is like like you
can do this right can you get a job
today no but you can dry clean your suit
cut your hair and shave today like that
you can do and then something cool
starts to happen is you start to check
these off how do you think you feel
about yourself hmm it's pretty start to
feel good right like you're like oh I
applied for five jobs today got my hair
did got an interview and the more that
you kind of abstract you operationalize
your your abstract thing okay the more
you operationalize your your abstract
thing like the the easier it becomes and
the better you feel about yourself and
then the other really really cool thing
about this is if you're thinking about
applying for a job and you apply for a
job and you get an interview you and you
don't get the job you feel crushed but
if this so I want you guys I don't know
how to say this so if you have a bunch
of check boxes okay then our successes
and you don't get one job after one
interview you're less likely to be
crushed at it whereas if you apply for
one job and get one interview and you
don't make it part of this abstract
large process that involves all of these
steps then all you have is failure but
if you don't get one job in this process
it's like who the [ __ ] cares like you
have you have all these different things
that you're doing like you're still
succeeding at all of them okay no big
deal like one interview so like that's
why you know you're how many it's like
like this is part of the process right
here how many
do we need to get an interview where our
chances of getting an interview you
become way more resistant to despair
when you do this process because you
start to remove yourself from an
equation you have lots and lots of
successes in there so you don't need to
worry about a singular failure right and
so this is how you move forward this is
how you deal with procrastination okay
good
so we're gonna do a couple actually
we're gonna have to do meditation so
unfortunately we don't have time for
questions now so we're gonna go ahead
and do meditation is then I gotta go
okay
you know I'll sort out my technical
difficulties for tomorrow okay so let's
think about what kind of you guys wanna
do something new let's do something new
[Music]
all right so we're gonna do we're gonna
do we're gonna do own chanting okay so I
know I'm chanting is kind of weird but
we're gonna do it okay so so ohm
chanting ohm is composed of three
syllables ah ooh
and okay so so I'll demonstrate one so
I'm gonna sit up straight take a deep
breath
[Music]
okay so I want you guys to do it with me
ah
in one breath we're gonna do five
breaths okay close your eyes take notice
your anxiety if you feel silly so be it
notice that feeling of silliness we're
gonna practice anyway right we're gonna
practice dealing with avoidance
procrastination right now so notice what
is it that you feel do you feel silly
are you afraid that people are gonna be
mad at you for waking them up like what
are what is that that emotion that
you're feeling how would someone if it's
2:00 a.m. where you are and you don't
want to chant like this how would
someone feel if it was 2:00 a.m. and
they started chanting okay so let's play
that little game and then let's to
notice those feelings and then let's go
ahead and do it sit up straight five
rounds
Oh
I want you to focus on the vibration in
your body not the sound
[Music]
last one
okay so go at your own pace right so
learn to breathe you guys look at their
that's okay so thank you guys very much
for coming
we very hope you all are doing well and
yeah we'll see you guys tomorrow so
thank you guys very much so I think
we're taking donations on coffee
kofi so for those of you who have have
donated we really appreciate it
and for those of you who like watch
stream and stuff we appreciate that as
well so come back tomorrow we're trying
to you know keep things free and we're
streaming later today so I'm streaming
in about an hour and a half so and stay
well stay safe take time to meditate
take time to reflect take time to do
yoga start to take care of yourself
because that's what you deserve right
you owe yourself the care that you give
to your loved ones and friends is not
care that you give to yourself and that
needs to change today so start taking
care of yourself